England you animations which we use and a component since you want to use them in a template are set
up and the app component decorator.
Here we have d any maze sions aere and indeed array.
We did find the animations this template should be aware of any missions are generally types of code
as we write it here in our times file but it's very easy to understand how we manipulate certain styles
of elements since there we will use the same names as we use with normal SEUS styles but you'll see
what I mean.
So how does it English to animation look like how is it defined.
Each animation has a Dreger.
So we need to add Draeger and trigger needs to be imported from an angular COOREY that will split as
that were multiple lines because I will import a couple of our methods as well with a trigger which
is a function.
We tell you that we wanted to find a certain name which we can place in our dorm and our template which
should then if it is placed there trigger a certain animation.
So let's give it any name I'll choose div State since I want to manipulate the state of this div element
.
This name is totally up to you.
So that is a trigger.
That alone won't do anything though.
I want to attach some animations or something.
What does trigger she will do.
So the second argument to a trigger function defines the animation this triggers should toggle.
Now any mation is of type animation meta data as you can see here.
And this actually simply is an array so we pass an array as the second argument.
Now with that triggers set up and even though I have no animation added yet I can go back to the template
and add this trigger to this day if I do this by using square brackets like when using property binding
but then apt and not the name of the trigger which would be div state cell this trigger configured here
indeed High-School code is now used here and does attaches it to that death.
Now we need to bind that to something because the animation I'm going to the final seconds should run
all the time.
So here we need to kind of YEM bind the condition which then controls which part of that animation we're
going to set up should run.
I'm going to wind this to a simple property named state which doesn't exist yet which I'll treat my
component a normal property in that component state which I will set to normal initially.
That is up to you.
That could also be a number or whatever you like that is totally unrelated to you or any mation or due
to the angle to animations in general.
But we will use this state property and the different values that can have in our trigger up here.
Now how does it work.
Well let's say we want to define two states normal which is which it is set to by default and then we
want to give it a number state.
Let's say highlight it let's say we want to have animation between two states and that is important
.
How Eylandt to any nation's work you transition from state 1 to state 2.
You work with states you don't have to name the property which controls your state state as I do but
it makes sense year since we're talking about different states of that animation.
So we define such a new state in our animation every simply bypassing state and importing data from
at angular coord to that's also animation related method.
Now as I said we will at least have two states here to have something to transition from and to.
Side note.
I will show you a different set up in one of the next videos.
And then we set up each state.
Now we give it a name normal.
And this state here of course should match the state down there because I want to use the state I actually
use in my template or in the typescript code so I'll use normal year.
And here let's say highlighted both names are up to you just make sure that you actually use them like
I do here and therefore it and also in a template where I bind to state.
So how should the normal state look like that.
So the second argument of the state method here we pass a style object where a style method also imported
from an angle or core.
So that's yet another method.
But in this method we now define the style of the state.
So we pass it Schulthess grip object.
And here it's almost like writing C S S code but don't use any dashes.
So no background color like this.
So how do we want to set Up-State here.
Well actually I want to set the background color and I can do this by enclosing it in single quotes
or alternatively by using the camel case syntax like this.
So I'll choose the first syntax with single quotes here and then as a background color to red.
Let's say this is my initial state that the background color is red.
I also want to give it to one to transform it to set translate X to zero to have it at its default position
and not move it anywhere to the left or right.
So this is normal C-s as styling here.
Be aware that we don't see the diff as of now though because well it is a normal day of year and it
only has our state and even though if we were in the normal state we only set background color in the
position but not the width and height.
So in that template Let's quickly go to that depth and add a normal style.
Totally unrelated to and let you set the width to 100 pixels and the height to 100 pixels so that we
can see it back to the type of code we set our normal state.
Now we want to do the same for the highlighted state here I also pass a shallow script object.
And if we highlight it let's say we want to set the background color.
Now I'm deliberately using the syntax to blue.
We also want to transform it and move it and we want to move it 100 pixels to to right.
Let's say this is the highlighted state.
Now if I save this with NG serve running to see the application if this reloads we see the red rectangle
or square here all ready.
Rizzio Square because we saw it set the width and height here.
But the red color clearly stems from our normal state which we set up here in a site property which
we blind to our deaf state which again is the trigger.
We're setting up here as animation so we don't have an animation yet but an animation is always just
a movement or a journey from one stage to the other and at least we're at the beginning stage now in
the next few.
We'll have a look at how we could get to highlight it and how we can ANY made to transition between
the two states.